Raptor integration - feature branch (#3121)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/templating/twig_function_reference/recommendations_twig_functions.md

---
description: Recommendations Twig Functions
month_change: true
---

# Recommendations Twig functions

> The following events are supported and can be triggered from Twig templates:

Reviewer: It should include a link to `raptor_connector.md` for people landing directly here from search engine, bookmarks, or whatever.

This function accepts the following parameters:

|Parameter     |Type   |Default value                |Remarks                                   |
|--------------|-------|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------|
|`customerId`  |string |From SiteAccess configuration|[Raptor account ID](connector_installation_configuration.md#customer-id). Can be overridden for custom customer IDs.|
|`hasConsented`|boolean|false                        |Controls loading of tracking based on user consent at render time.|

Default setup:

``` html+twig
{{ ibexa_tracking_script() }}
```
Example setup using parameters:

``` html+twig
{{ ibexa_tracking_script(customerId: '123', hasConsented: true) }}
```

Without setting custom `customerId` parameter, the function renders the tracking script using the configured `customerID` from the [connector configuration](connector_installation_configuration.md#siteaccess-aware-configuration).
It can be overridden by providing a custom value if needed.

If `hasConsented` is set to `true` in the template, the tracking script is initialized automatically.

> This value should be set if user consent for tracking cookies is already known at render time.

Reviewer: I'm concerned by HTTP cache, I note this here but I don't have a satisfying solution.
```suggestion
If `hasConsented` is set to `true` in the template, the tracking script is initialized automatically.
This value should be set if user consent for tracking cookies is already known at render time.
If set dynamically, take care of [HTTP cache](context_aware_cache.md) to not set it to `true` for people not having consented.
```

``` js
document.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('enableTracking'));
```

!!! note

    In [Symfony's debug mode]([[= symfony_doc =]]/reference/configuration/kernel.html#kernel-debug), the provided script outputs diagnostic information to the console.
    This output is not included in production environment.

## `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function

The `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function is responsible for sending event data to the service, enabling tracking of user interactions and behaviors.

Tracking is handled through twig function that accept following parameters:

``` html+twig
ibexa_tracking_track_event(
    eventType,     {# string: 'visit', 'contentvisit', 'buy', 'basket', 'itemclick' #}
    data,          {# mixed: product, content, or null (optional) #}
    context,       {# array: additional context data (optional) #}
    template       {# string: custom template path (optional) #}
)
```

- **eventType** - type: string, defines the type of tracking event to be sent, for example, `visit`, `contentvisit`, `buy`, `basket`, `itemclick`

> - **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required - for examples of product as data, see [tracking event examples](tracking_php_api.md#tracking-events)
```

> - **context** (optional)- type: array, additional event data, such as quantity, basket details, or custom parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **context** (optional)- type: array, additional event data, such as quantity, basket details, or custom parameters - for more information, see [example usage](#context-parameter-example-usage)
```

- **template** (optional) - type: string, path to a custom Twig template used to render the tracking event, allows overriding the default tracking output

### `context` parameter - example usage

You can use `context` parameter to add additional data.

During tracking, for products assigned to multiple categories, the system uses the first category.
In this case, `context` parameter allows to override the product category by passing a category identifier:

``` html+twig
{% block content %}
    <div class="product-details">
        <h1>{{ product.name }}</h1>
        {# ... product content ... #}
    </div>

    {# Track with category identifier - automatic loading and formatting #}
        {{ ibexa_tracking_track_event('visit', product, {
        'categoryIdentifier': 'electronics'
    }) }}
{% endblock %}
```

> ### Custom Templates

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

For an other example of context, see [Basket event](tracking_php_api.md#basket-event).

### Custom Templates
````

``` js
document.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('enableTracking'));
```

!!! note

    In [Symfony's debug mode]([[= symfony_doc =]]/reference/configuration/kernel.html#kernel-debug), the provided script outputs diagnostic information to the console.
    This output is not included in production environment.

## `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function

The `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function is responsible for sending event data to the service, enabling tracking of user interactions and behaviors.

Tracking is handled through twig function that accept following parameters:

``` html+twig
ibexa_tracking_track_event(
    eventType,     {# string: 'visit', 'contentvisit', 'buy', 'basket', 'itemclick' #}
    data,          {# mixed: product, content, or null (optional) #}
    context,       {# array: additional context data (optional) #}
    template       {# string: custom template path (optional) #}
)
```

- **eventType** - type: string, defines the type of tracking event to be sent, for example, `visit`, `contentvisit`, `buy`, `basket`, `itemclick`

> - **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required. For more information, check [tracking event examples](tracking_php_api.md#tracking-events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required. For more information, check [tracking event examples](#tracking-events).
```

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/basket_event.html.twig') =]]
```

Simplified example with Twig filter:

``` html+twig
{# If you have a custom Twig filter to format basket content #}
{% set basketContext = {
    'basketContent': basket|format_basket_content,  {# Returns "SKU-1:2;SKU-2:1;SKU-3:5" #}
    'basketId': basket.id,
    'quantity': addedQuantity
} %}

{{ ibexa_tracking_track_event('basket', product, basketContext) }}
```

### `context` parameter - example usage

You can use `context` parameter to add additional data.

During tracking, for products assigned to multiple categories, the system uses the first category.
In this case, `context` parameter allows to override the product category by passing a category identifier:

``` html+twig
{% block content %}
    <div class="product-details">
        <h1>{{ product.name }}</h1>
        {# ... product content ... #}
    </div>

    {# Track with category identifier - automatic loading and formatting #}
        {{ ibexa_tracking_track_event('visit', product, {
        'categoryIdentifier': 'electronics'
    }) }}
{% endblock %}
```

> For another example of `context` parameter usage, see [Basket event](tracking_php_api.md#basket-event).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For another example of `context` parameter usage, see [Basket event](#basket-event).
```

---
description: Recommendations Twig Functions
month_change: true
---

# Recommendations Twig functions

The following Twig functions are supported while using [Raptor connector](raptor_connector.md):

## `ibexa_tracking_script()` function

`ibexa_tracking_script()` Twig function allows you to embed main tracking script into the website.
It loads the initial script into `window.raptor`, enabling events tracking, for example, page visits, product views, or buys, from the front-end.

> It can be overridden in multiple ways to support custom implementations and to render code snippet through `[[= product_name_base =]]` in [Design Engine](../../templating/design_engine/design_engine.md).

Reviewer 2: Why `[[= product_name_base =]]` in backticks?

Author: typo

    eventType,     {# string: 'visit', 'contentvisit', 'buy', 'basket', 'itemclick' #}
    data,          {# mixed: product, content, or null (optional) #}
    context,       {# array: additional context data (optional) #}
    template       {# string: custom template path (optional) #}
)
```

- **eventType** - type: string, defines the type of tracking event to be sent, for example, `visit`, `contentvisit`, `buy`, `basket`, `itemclick`. For more information, see [Tracking events for recommendations](https://content.raptorservices.com/help-center/tracking-events-for-recommendation).
- **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required. For more information, check [tracking event examples](#tracking-events).
- **context** (optional)- type: array, additional event data, such as quantity, basket details, or custom parameters. For more information, see [example usage](#context-parameter-example-usage).
- **template** (optional) - type: string, path to a custom Twig template used to render the tracking event, allows overriding the default tracking output

#### Tracking events

> The following events are supported and can be triggered from Twig templates:

Reviewer 2: Is itemclicked and buy not supported? They are not on this list

Reviewer: @mnocon

They seem supported. But, by their meaning, I wouldn't recommend to use them from Twig.

- `buy` event should be dispatched from checkout workflow.
- `itemclicked` event should be dispatched by JavaScript, forms, and such interactive elements.

I didn't find such implementations. This is something to investigate further.

Reviewer 3: Yes, itemclick is fully supported.
All event types can be used with ibexa_tracking_track_event() — you just need to change the event type parameter.
itemclick — requires a product code and additional context: moduleName, redirectUrl
We focused on visit and contentvisit as the primary use cases for the first release. The basket and itemclick events are implemented, but haven’t been extensively tested in all scenarios yet.
The buy event is also implemented, but not ready for production use yet — it requires BrandId (p8), which is not currently supported in DXP.

Example – ITEMCLICK event (click on recommendation):
```
{{ ibexa_tracking_track_event('itemclick', product.code, {
    'moduleName': 'homepage-recommendations',
    'redirectUrl': path('ibexa.product.view', {'productCode': product.code})
}) }}
```

Reviewer: `itemclick` added in 5d231e30328c83af15c32efd2127a5df5d598f76

### Product `visit` event

This event tracks product page visits by users.
It's the most common e-commerce tracking event used to capture product views for analytics, recommendation models, and user behavior processing.

Required data:

> - **Product object** - defines the product being tracked. It implements `ProductInterface` so the system can read its information (for example, ID, price, category).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Product object** - defines the product being tracked. It implements `ProductInterface` so the system can read its information (for example, code, price, category).
```

> - **Product object** - defines the product being tracked. It implements `ProductInterface` so the system can read its information (for example, ID, price, category).

Reviewer 2: Please add link to PHP API ref

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/product_visit_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### Content `visit` event

This event tracks content page visits by users.
It can used to check content views for analytics, personalization, and user behavior tracking.

> - **Content object** - defines the content being tracked.

Reviewer 2: Please add link to PHP API ref

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/content_visit_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### Basket event

> This event tracks when a product is added to the shopping basket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This event tracks when a product is added to the [cart](cart.md).
```

It catches user interest and helps with conversion tracking and product recommendations.

Required data:

- **Product object** - defines the product being added to the basket.

> - **Context array with basket information** - provides optional data about the basket, like quantity or basket ID, to provide context for the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Context array with cart information** - provides optional data about the cart, like product quantity or cart identifier, to provide context for the event.
```

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/basket_event.html.twig') =]]
```

> Simplified example with Twig filter:

Reviewer 2: Not a fan of this example, it's "here's how simple it could be if you write your custom code to make it simpler". If this is useful, would be nice to provide this out of the box - I believe Partners are aware that they can create their own helpers when needed.

I'd just remove this TBH

Reviewer 3: Good point - please remove this simplified example. It doesn't add much value without providing the actual filter implementation.

---
description: Recommendations Twig Functions
month_change: true
---

# Recommendations Twig functions

The following Twig functions are supported while using [Raptor connector](raptor_connector.md):

## `ibexa_tracking_script()` function

> `ibexa_tracking_script()` Twig function allows you to embed main tracking script into the website.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `ibexa_tracking_script()` Twig function allows you to embed the main tracking script into the website.
```

> It loads the initial script into `window.raptor`, enabling events tracking, for example, page visits, product views, or buys, from the front-end.

Reviewer 4: Avoid gerunds. What is the subject of 'enabling"?
If it is "it" (the function), try saying "`windows.raptor`, to enable...". If it is the initial script or the raprot.window, split the sentences and explain: "The script enables..."...

> It can be overridden in multiple ways to support custom implementations and to render code snippet through [[= product_name_base =]] in [Design Engine](../../templating/design_engine/design_engine.md).

Reviewer 4: What is "it" here? The function, the script?, the tracking results? 

```suggestion
Tracking results can be overridden in multiple ways to support custom implementations and to render code snippet through [[= product_name_base =]] in the [design engine](design_engine.md).
```

Tracking can be conditionally initialized depending on cookie consent logic.

> By default, the function returns the script for client-side use, while it can return nothing when used server-side.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, for client-side use, the function returns a script, but it can return nothing when used server-side.
```

Consider rewriting the sentence even further to make it clearer.

This function accepts the following parameters:

|Parameter     |Type   |Default value                |Remarks                                   |
|--------------|-------|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------|
|`customerId`  |string |From SiteAccess configuration|[Raptor account ID](connector_installation_configuration.md#customer-id). Can be overridden for custom customer IDs.|
|`hasConsented`|boolean|false                        |Controls loading of tracking based on user consent at render time.|

Default setup:

``` html+twig
{{ ibexa_tracking_script() }}
```
Example setup using parameters:

``` html+twig
{{ ibexa_tracking_script(customerId: '123', hasConsented: true) }}
```

> Without setting custom `customerId` parameter, the function renders the tracking script using the configured `customerID` from the [connector configuration](connector_installation_configuration.md#siteaccess-aware-configuration).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the custom `customerId` parameter is not set, the function uses the `customerID` from the [connector_installation_configuration.md#siteaccess-aware-configuration) to render the tracking script.
```

It can be overridden by providing a custom value if needed.

> If `hasConsented` is set to `true` in the template, the tracking script is initialized automatically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the `hasConsented` parameter is set to `true` in the template, the tracking script is initialized automatically.
```

This value should be set if user consent for tracking cookies is already known at render time.

> If `hasConsented` parameter is set to `false`, tracking should be enabled by dispatching a custom JavaScript event after consent is granted, for example through a custom script in layout.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If `hasConsented` is set to `false`, tracking should be enabled by dispatching a custom JavaScript event after consent is granted, for example through a custom script in layout.
```

> When set dynamically, avoid enabling the [HTTP cache](context_aware_cache.md) for users without consent.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If it is set dynamically, avoid enabling the [HTTP cache](context_aware_cache.md) for users without consent.
```

The recommended method to integrate the tracking script with custom front-end logic is to dispatch the `enableTracking` JavaScript event after tracking cookie consent is granted:

``` js
document.dispatchEvent(new CustomEvent('enableTracking'));
```

!!! note

    In [Symfony's debug mode]([[= symfony_doc =]]/reference/configuration/kernel.html#kernel-debug), the provided script outputs diagnostic information to the console.
    This output is not included in production environment.

## `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function

> The `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function is responsible for sending event data to the service, enabling tracking of user interactions and behaviors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `ibexa_tracking_track_event()` function is responsible for sending event data to the service, which enables tracking of user interactions and behaviors.
```

> Tracking is handled through twig function that accept following parameters:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tracking is handled through a twig function that accept following parameters:
```

``` html+twig
ibexa_tracking_track_event(
    eventType,     {# string: 'visit', 'contentvisit', 'buy', 'basket', 'itemclick' #}
    data,          {# mixed: product, content, or null (optional) #}
    context,       {# array: additional context data (optional) #}
    template       {# string: custom template path (optional) #}
)
```

- **eventType** - type: string, defines the type of tracking event to be sent, for example, `visit`, `contentvisit`, `buy`, `basket`, `itemclick`. For more information, see [Tracking events for recommendations](https://content.raptorservices.com/help-center/tracking-events-for-recommendation).

> - **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required. For more information, check [tracking event examples](#tracking-events).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **data** (optional) - type: mixed, accepts the primary object associated with the event, such as a Product or Content, can be null if not required. For more information, see [tracking event examples](#tracking-events).
```

- **context** (optional)- type: array, additional event data, such as quantity, basket details, or custom parameters. For more information, see [example usage](#context-parameter-example-usage).

> - **template** (optional) - type: string, path to a custom Twig template used to render the tracking event, allows overriding the default tracking output

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **template** (optional) - type: string, path to a custom Twig template used to render the tracking event, allows overriding the default tracking output.
```

This event tracks product page visits by users.
It's the most common e-commerce tracking event used to capture product views for analytics, recommendation models, and user behavior processing.

Required data:

- **Product object** - defines the product being tracked. It implements [`Ibexa\Contracts\ProductCatalog\Values\ProductInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-ProductCatalog-Values-ProductInterface.html) so the system can read its information (for example, code, price, category).

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/product_visit_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### `contentvisit` event

This event tracks content page visits by users.
It implements [`Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\Content\Content`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-Core-Repository-Values-Content-Content.html) and can be used to check content views for analytics, personalization, and user behavior tracking.

- **Content object** - defines the content being tracked.

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/content_visit_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### `itemclicked` event

> This event tracks when a user clicks on a Raptor recommendation, including adding products to the cart from the recommendation module.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This event tracks when a user clicks a Raptor recommendation, including adding products to the cart from the recommendation module.
```

Required data:

- **Product code** - defines the product code added to the cart.

> - **Context** - provides optional data about, like `moduleName` or `redirectUrl`, to provide context for the event.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Context** - provides optional data, like `moduleName` or `redirectUrl`, to provide context for the event.
```

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/itemclicked_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### Basket event

This event tracks when a product is added to the [cart](cart.md).

> It catches user interest and helps with conversion tracking and product recommendations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It captures user interactions that indicate interest, which can be used for conversion tracking and to improve product recommendations.
```

Required data:

- **Product object** - defines the product being added to the basket.
- **Context array with cart information** - provides optional data about the cart, like product quantity or cart identifier, to provide context for the event.

Example:

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recommendations/events/basket_event.html.twig') =]]
```

### `context` parameter - example usage

> You can use `context` parameter to add additional data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use the `context` parameter to pass additional data.
```

During tracking, for products assigned to multiple categories, the system uses the first category.

> In this case, `context` parameter allows to override the product category by passing a category identifier:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this case, `context` allows to override the product category by passing a category identifier:
```

``` html+twig
{% block content %}
    <div class="product-details">
        <h1>{{ product.name }}</h1>
        {# ... product content ... #}
    </div>

    {# Track with category identifier - CategoryID automatic loading and formatting #}
        {{ ibexa_tracking_track_event('visit', product, {
        'categoryIdentifier': 'electronics'
    }) }}
{% endblock %}
```

> For another example of `context` parameter usage, see [Basket event](#basket-event).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For another usage example, see the [Basket event](#basket-event).
```

> ### Custom Templates

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Custom templates
```

> You can create a custom template for tracking in the `/templates/tracking/` directory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can create a custom template in the `/templates/tracking/` directory, and use it for tracking.
```

> Check the following `custom_visit.html.twig` example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the following example of `custom_visit.html.twig`:
```
